Offcanvas as component (#29017)
twbs/bootstrap: site/content/docs/4.3/components/offcanvas.md

---
layout: docs
title: Offcanvas

> description: Toggle the visibility sidebars across your project with a few classes and our JavaScript plugins.

Reviewer: This needs some rewording. Also `plugins` -> `plugin`.

group: components
toc: true
---

## How it works

The offcanvas JavaScript plugin is used to show and hide a sidebar. Buttons or anchors are used as triggers that are mapped to specific elements you toggle. Given how CSS handles animations, you cannot use `margin` & `translate` on a `.offcanvas` element. Instead, use the class as an independent wrapping element.

## Example

Click the buttons below to show and hide another element via class changes:

- `.offcanvas` hides content
- `.offcanvas.show` shows content

You can use a link with the `href` attribute, or a button with the `data-target` attribute. In both cases, the `data-toggle="offcanvas"` is required.

{{< example >}}
<p>
  <a class="btn btn-primary" data-toggle="offcanvas" href="#offcanvasExample" role="button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="offcanvasExample">
    Link with href
  </a>
  <button class="btn btn-primary" type="button" data-toggle="offcanvas" data-target="#offcanvasExample" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="offcanvasExample">
    Button with data-target
  </button>
</p>
<div class="offcanvas offanvas-push-body bg-dark text-white" tabindex="-1" id="offcanvasExample">
  <div class="offcanvas-header">

>      <div class="h4 col text-center">Offcanvas</div>

Reviewer: These examples need reindendation @GeoSot. All of them in this page.

It seems a `</div>` is missing somewhere in all of them.

---
layout: docs
title: Offcanvas

> description: Toggle the visibility sidebars across your project with a few classes and our JavaScript plugin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Build hidden sidebars into your project for navigation, shopping carts, and more with a few classes and our JavaScript plugin.
```

group: components
toc: true
---

## How it works

> The offcanvas JavaScript plugin is used to show and hide a sidebar (or bottom-bar). Buttons or anchors are used as triggers, to specific elements you toggle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The offcanvas JavaScript plugin shows and hides sidebar on the left, right, or bottom of your viewport. Buttons or anchors are used as triggers that are attached to specific elements you toggle.
```

> Given how CSS handles animations, you cannot use `margin` & `translate` on a `.offcanvas` element. Use the class on an independent wrapping element.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Given how CSS handles animations, you cannot use `margin` or `translate` on a `.offcanvas` element. Instead, use the class as an independent wrapping element.
```

## Example

> Click the buttons below to show and hide another element via class changes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click the buttons below to show and hide an offcanvas element via class changes:
```

- `.offcanvas` hides content
- `.offcanvas.show` shows content

You can use a link with the `href` attribute, or a button with the `data-target` attribute. In both cases, the `data-toggle="offcanvas"` is required.

{{< example >}}
<p>
  <a class="btn btn-primary" data-toggle="offcanvas" href="#offcanvasExample" role="button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="offcanvasExample">
    Link with href
  </a>
  <button class="btn btn-primary" type="button" data-toggle="offcanvas" data-target="#offcanvasExample" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="offcanvasExample">
    Button with data-target
  </button>
</p>

> <div class="offcanvas offanvas-push-body bg-dark text-white" tabindex="-1" id="offcanvasExample">

Reviewer 2: `offanvas-push-body`?

Author: I bet it is left by mistake

  <div class="offcanvas-header">

>     <div class="h4 col text-center">Offcanvas</div>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <div class="h4">Offcanvas</div>
```

    <button type="button" class="close text-reset" data-dismiss="offcanvas" aria-label="Close">
      <span aria-hidden="true">&times;</span>
    </button>
  </div>

>   <div class="card card-body text-dark ">

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest nixing the bulk of this custom content and replacing it with something more functional and expected:

- Navigation elements (perhaps a stacked pill nav or a list group?)
- Simple `<p>`s of content

Author: @mdo 
I think now it is ok. Please take a look

    Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident.
  </div>

  <div class="dropdown mt-3">
    <button class="btn btn-secondary dropdown-toggle" type="button" id="dropdownMenuButton" data-toggle="dropdown" aria-expanded="false">
      Dropdown button
    </button>
    <ul class="dropdown-menu" aria-labelledby="dropdownMenuButton">
      <li><a class="dropdown-item" href="#">Action</a></li>
      <li><a class="dropdown-item" href="#">Another action</a></li>
      <li><a class="dropdown-item" href="#">Something else here</a></li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</div>
{{< /example >}}

> ## Position Modifiers

Reviewer 2: We use sentence case in Bootstrap, so this would be `Position modifiers`, but I think we can leave just as `Position` for brevity's sake.

```suggestion
## Position
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Add an intro line:

> Change the placement of an offcanvas element with modifier classes:

> - `.offcanvas-right` modifier, places offcanvas on the right side

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `.offcanvas-right` places offcanvas on the right of the viewport
```

> - `.offcanvas-bottom` modifier, places offcanvas on the bottom of the screen

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `.offcanvas-bottom` places offcanvas on the bottom of the viewport
```

{{< example >}}
<p>

>   <button class="btn btn-primary" type="button" data-toggle="offcanvas" data-target="#offcanvasExample2" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="offcanvasExample2">Toggle Right offcanvas</button>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <button class="btn btn-primary" type="button" data-toggle="offcanvas" data-target="#offcanvasExample2" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="offcanvasExample2">Toggle right offcanvas</button>
```

>   <button class="btn btn-primary" type="button" data-toggle="offcanvas" data-target="#offcanvasExample3" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="offcanvasExample3">Toggle Bottom offcanvas</button>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <button class="btn btn-primary" type="button" data-toggle="offcanvas" data-target="#offcanvasExample3" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="offcanvasExample3">Toggle bottom offcanvas</button>
```

</p>
<div class="offcanvas bg-dark text-white offcanvas-right" tabindex="-1" id="offcanvasExample2">
  <div class="offcanvas-header">

>     <div class="h4 col text-center">Offcanvas Right Side</div>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <div class="h4">Offcanvas right</div>
```

    <button type="button" class="close text-reset" data-dismiss="offcanvas" aria-label="Close">
      <span aria-hidden="true">&times;</span>
    </button>
  </div>
</div>
<div class="offcanvas bg-dark text-white offcanvas-bottom" tabindex="-1" id="offcanvasExample3">
  <div class="offcanvas-header">

>     <div class="h4 col text-center">Offcanvas Bottom</div>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <div class="h4">Offcanvas bottom</div>
```

    <button type="button" class="close text-reset" data-dismiss="offcanvas" aria-label="Close">
      <span aria-hidden="true">&times;</span>
    </button>
  </div>
</div>
{{< /example >}}

## Color schemes

> Theming offcanvas is very easy by using our [color utilities]({{< docsref "/utilities/colors" >}}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Easily style an offcanvas element with a different `background-color` or `color` with our [color utilities]({{< docsref "/utilities/colors" >}}).
```

> Any combination of `bg-*` and `text-{color}` utilities, can give a different result

Reviewer 2: Safe to delete this, this is self explanatory.

```suggestion
```

{{< example >}}
<p>

>   <button class="btn btn-primary" type="button" data-toggle="offcanvas" data-target="#offcanvasExample31" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="offcanvasExample31">Colored Offcanvas</button>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <button class="btn btn-primary" type="button" data-toggle="offcanvas" data-target="#offcanvasColored" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="offcanvasColored">Colored offcanvas</button>
```

</p>

> <div class="offcanvas bg-primary text-white" data-body="scroll" tabindex="-1" id="offcanvasExample31">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<div class="offcanvas bg-primary text-white" data-body="scroll" tabindex="-1" id="offcanvasColored">
```

  <div class="offcanvas-header">

>     <div class="h4 col text-center">Hey I got New Colors</div>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <div class="h4">Colored offcanvas</div>
```

  </div>
</div>

{{< /example >}}

> ## Body Options

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Options
```

> By default, when an offcanvas is visible, body cannot be scrolled. You can use the following data-options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, when an offcanvas is visible, the `<body>` of your page cannot be scrolled. You can use the following data-options to change this behavior:
```

> - `data-body="scroll"` enables scrollBar on body when offcanvas is open

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `data-body="scroll"` enables scrolling on the `<body>` when offcanvas is open
```

> - `data-body="backdrop"` hides scrollBar and creates a backdrop on body, when offcanvas is open

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `data-body="backdrop"` disables scrolling and creates a backdrop over the `<body>` when offcanvas is open
```

{{< example >}}
<p>
  <button class="btn btn-primary" type="button" data-toggle="offcanvas" data-target="#offcanvasExample4" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="offcanvasExample4">Enable body scrolling </button>
  <button class="btn btn-primary" type="button" data-toggle="offcanvas" data-target="#offcanvasExample5" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="offcanvasExample5">Body backdrop</button>
</p>
<div class="offcanvas bg-dark text-white" data-body="scroll" tabindex="-1" id="offcanvasExample4">
  <div class="offcanvas-header">

>     <div class="h4 col text-center">Wow, body scroller is with us again</div>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <div class="h4">Offcanvas with scrolling</div>
    <p>Try scrolling the rest of the page to see this option in action.</p>
```

  </div>
</div>
<div class="offcanvas bg-dark text-white" data-body="backdrop" tabindex="-1" id="offcanvasExample5">
  <div class="offcanvas-header">

>     <div class="h4 col text-center">Body is covered by a backdrop</div>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <div class="h4">Offcanvas with backdrop</div>
    <p>Try clicking on the page's content to toggle the offcanvas.</p>
```

  </div>
</div>
{{< /example >}}

## Accessibility

> Make sure to add `aria-expanded` to the control element. This attribute explicitly conveys the current state of the collapsible element tied to the control to screen readers and similar assistive technologies. If the collapsible element is closed by default, the attribute on the control element should have a value of `aria-expanded="false"`. If you've set the collapsible element to be open by default using the `show` class, set `aria-expanded="true"` on the control instead. The plugin will automatically toggle this attribute on the control based on whether or not the collapsible element has been opened or closed (via JavaScript, or because the user triggered another control element also tied to the same collapsible element). If the control element's HTML element is not a button (e.g., an `<a>` or `<div>`), the attribute `role="button"` should be added to the element.

Reviewer 2: Do we need to update the language here to be changed from `collapsible` to `offcanvas`? Or, to avoid duplication, should we point folks to this section in the collapse docs?

Author: I chose the 'link' way, to avoid extra text.

If your control element is targeting a single collapsible element – i.e. the `data-target` attribute is pointing to an `id` selector – you should add the `aria-controls` attribute to the control element, containing the `id` of the collapsible element. Modern screen readers and similar assistive technologies make use of this attribute to provide users with additional shortcuts to navigate directly to the collapsible element itself.

## Usage

> The offcanvas plugin utilizes a few classes to handle the heavy lifting:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The offcanvas plugin utilizes a few classes and attributes to handle the heavy lifting:
```

- `.offcanvas` hides the content
- `.offcanvas.show` shows the content
- `.offcanvas-right` hides the offcanvas on the right
- `.offcanvas-bottom` hides the offcanvas on the bottom

> - `data-body="scroll"` enables body scrollbar when offcanvas is open

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `data-body="scroll"` enables `<body>` scrolling when offcanvas is open
```

> - `data-body="backdrop"` hides scrollBar and add backdrop to body, when offcanvas is open

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `data-body="backdrop"` disables `<body>` scrolling and adds backdrop when offcanvas is open
```

> - Add a dismiss button with the `data-dismiss="offcanvas"` attribute, which triggers the JavaScript functionality. Be sure to use the `<button>` element with it for proper behavior across all devices.

Reviewer 2: Separate this out from the list of classes/attributes:

```suggestion

Add a dismiss button with the `data-dismiss="offcanvas"` attribute, which triggers the JavaScript functionality. Be sure to use the `<button>` element with it for proper behavior across all devices.
```

### Via data attributes

> Just add `data-toggle="offcanvas"` and a `data-target` or `href` to the element to automatically assign control of one offcanvas element. The `data-target` attribute accepts a CSS selector to apply the offcanvas to. Be sure to add the class `offcanvas` to the offcanvas element. If you'd like it to default open, add the additional class `show`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add `data-toggle="offcanvas"` and a `data-target` or `href` to the element to automatically assign control of one offcanvas element. The `data-target` attribute accepts a CSS selector to apply the offcanvas to. Be sure to add the class `offcanvas` to the offcanvas element. If you'd like it to default open, add the additional class `show`.
```

| `_getInstance` | *Static* method which allows you to get the offcanvas instance associated with a DOM element |

### Events

Bootstrap's offcanvas class exposes a few events for hooking into offcanvas functionality.

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style="width: 150px;">Event Type</th>
      <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>show.bs.offcanvas</td>
      <td>This event fires immediately when the <code>show</code> instance method is called.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>shown.bs.offcanvas</td>
      <td>This event is fired when a offcanvas element has been made visible to the user (will wait for CSS transitions to complete).</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>hide.bs.offcanvas</td>
      <td>This event is fired immediately when the <code>hide</code> method has been called.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>hidden.bs.offcanvas</td>
      <td>This event is fired when a offcanvas element has been hidden from the user (will wait for CSS transitions to complete).</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

{{< highlight js >}}

> var myOffcanvas = document.getElementById('myCollapsible')

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
var myOffcanvas = document.getElementById('myOffcanvas')
```

> myCollapsible.addEventListener('hidden.bs.offcanvas', function () {

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
myOffcanvas.addEventListener('hidden.bs.offcanvas', function () {
```

---
layout: docs
title: Offcanvas

> description: Toggle the visibility sidebars across your project with a few classes and our JavaScript plugin.

Reviewer: `visibility sidebars` doesn't seem right. Not sure how to reword this.
